pages/03.addons/04.metakube-webterminal/default.en.md, before:

---
title: 'MetaKube Web Terminal'
published: true
taxonomy:
    tag:
        - kubernetes
        - gui
        - webterminal
        - addon
---

The web-terminal gives you command line access to your cluster and your openstack resources directly from the browser.
To access the web-terminal install the addon and click on the `Web Terminal` link on the addon web interfaces list:

![MetaKube Dashboard](metakube-dashboard.png)

This bash terminal runs on Alpine Linux in the background and comes installed with all the necessary tools to interact with your cluster and your openstack resources:

1) [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)
2) [helm](https://helm.sh/)
3) [tiller](https://docs.helm.sh/install/#installing-tiller)
4) [Velero](https://github.com/heptio/velero)
5) [OpenStack CLI Tools](https://docs.syseleven.de/syseleven-stack/en/howtos/openstack-cli)
6) curl, wget and git

![MetaKube Webterminal](metakube-webterminal.png)

## Installation

! Note that after installation everyone with "Editor" permissions has access to the Web Terminal and thus also full admin access to the cluster.

For information on how to install and uninstall an addon see [MetaKube Addons](../default.en.md).

## Customization

There are no customization options.

Commit message:

replaced all occurrences of addon to Add-On

pages/03.addons/04.metakube-webterminal/default.en.md, after:

---
title: 'MetaKube Web Terminal'
published: true
taxonomy:
    tag:
        - kubernetes
        - gui
        - webterminal
        - addon
---

The web-terminal gives you command line access to your cluster and your openstack resources directly from the browser.
To access the web-terminal install the Add-On and click on the `Web Terminal` link on the Add-On web interfaces list:

![MetaKube Dashboard](metakube-dashboard.png)

This bash terminal runs on Alpine Linux in the background and comes installed with all the necessary tools to interact with your cluster and your openstack resources:

1) [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)
2) [helm](https://helm.sh/)
3) [tiller](https://docs.helm.sh/install/#installing-tiller)
4) [Velero](https://github.com/heptio/velero)
5) [OpenStack CLI Tools](https://docs.syseleven.de/syseleven-stack/en/howtos/openstack-cli)
6) curl, wget and git

![MetaKube Webterminal](metakube-webterminal.png)

## Installation

! Note that after installation everyone with "Editor" permissions has access to the Web Terminal and thus also full admin access to the cluster.

For information on how to install and uninstall an Add-On see [MetaKube Add-Ons](../default.en.md).

## Customization

There are no customization options.
