pages/03.Tutorials/02.create-a-cluster/default.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Create a cluster'
published: true
date: '18-07-2018 13:00'
taxonomy:
    tag:
        - gui
        - metakube
        - cluster
---

## Place to live

To create a new cluster, open the MetaKube dashboard and select the menu entry `Create Cluster`. Clusters are tied to a [project](../../02.Documentation/02.projects/default.en.md). You can create as many clusters within one project as you want.
Start by choosing a name:

![Overview of cluster creation](image_overview_01.png)
![Overview of cluster creation with filled out name](image_overview_02.png)

the provider (at the time of writing, only the SysEleven Stack is supported):

![Menu to chose cloud provider](image_provider_01.png)

and the region where the cluster shall live:

![Menu to choose datacenter](image_datacenter_01.png)

## Create the cluster

In the next step of the installer, enter the domain name and your SysEleven Stack credentials into the `Provide credentials` tab:

![Overview of cluster settings](image_cluster-settings_01.png)

Then choose the tenant where you want to create the cluster from the drop-down list:

![Overview of cluster settings with highlighted tenant section](image_cluster-settings_02.png)

For node settings we recommend at least 3 nodes sized `m1.small` or bigger. For an overview of the possible node flavors see the [SysEleven Stack documentation](https://docs.syseleven.de/syseleven-stack/en/documentation/flavors). It is also possible to choose the operating system and image used for your worker nodes:

![Overview of cluster settings with highlighted node section](image_cluster-settings_03.png)


A default image tested and maintained by SysEleven is automatically chosen for the nodes, but you can also enter any image available to you in SysEleven Stack. To get a list of current base images, navigate to `Project -> Compute -> Images` in the SysEleven Stack dashboard:

![Overview of openstack images](image_stack-images_01.png)

Make sure to enter the exact name of the image you want to run on your machines, as listed in the images tab of the SysEleven stack dashboard.
The chosen SSH key will be used for authentication for the default user (e.g. `ubuntu` for Ubuntu images) on all worker nodes. When you click on next, you will see a summary and the cluster creation will start after you confirm. You will then be forwarded to the cluster creation page where you can view the cluster creation process:

![Cluster details in creation state](image_cluster-details_01.png)

After all of the master components are ready, your cluster will create the configured number of worker nodes in your SysEleven Stack tenant. Fully created nodes will be marked with a green dot, pending ones with a yellow circle. You may [download the kubeconfig](../06.download-the-kubeconfig/default.en.md) now to be able to use `kubectl` with your cluster. After all nodes are created you can use `kubectl` to view and check the status of the created nodes:

```bash
$ kubectl get nodes
NAME                          STATUS    ROLES     AGE       VERSION
kubermatic-w9tk8cmw62-22wgv   Ready     <none>    1m        v1.9.6
kubermatic-w9tk8cmw62-58pd6   Ready     <none>    1m        v1.9.6
kubermatic-w9tk8cmw62-hm5vl   Ready     <none>    1m        v1.9.6
```

Commit message:

Mention web terminal in create cluster tutorial as a way to use kubectl

pages/03.Tutorials/02.create-a-cluster/default.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Create a cluster'
published: true
date: '18-07-2018 13:00'
taxonomy:
    tag:
        - gui
        - metakube
        - cluster
---

## Place to live

To create a new cluster, open the MetaKube dashboard and select the menu entry `Create Cluster`. Clusters are tied to a [project](../../02.Documentation/02.projects/default.en.md). You can create as many clusters within one project as you want.
Start by choosing a name:

![Overview of cluster creation](image_overview_01.png)
![Overview of cluster creation with filled out name](image_overview_02.png)

the provider (at the time of writing, only the SysEleven Stack is supported):

![Menu to chose cloud provider](image_provider_01.png)

and the region where the cluster shall live:

![Menu to choose datacenter](image_datacenter_01.png)

## Create the cluster

In the next step of the installer, enter the domain name and your SysEleven Stack credentials into the `Provide credentials` tab:

![Overview of cluster settings](image_cluster-settings_01.png)

Then choose the tenant where you want to create the cluster from the drop-down list:

![Overview of cluster settings with highlighted tenant section](image_cluster-settings_02.png)

For node settings we recommend at least 3 nodes sized `m1.small` or bigger. For an overview of the possible node flavors see the [SysEleven Stack documentation](https://docs.syseleven.de/syseleven-stack/en/documentation/flavors). It is also possible to choose the operating system and image used for your worker nodes:

![Overview of cluster settings with highlighted node section](image_cluster-settings_03.png)


A default image tested and maintained by SysEleven is automatically chosen for the nodes, but you can also enter any image available to you in SysEleven Stack. To get a list of current base images, navigate to `Project -> Compute -> Images` in the SysEleven Stack dashboard:

![Overview of openstack images](image_stack-images_01.png)

Make sure to enter the exact name of the image you want to run on your machines, as listed in the images tab of the SysEleven stack dashboard.
The chosen SSH key will be used for authentication for the default user (e.g. `ubuntu` for Ubuntu images) on all worker nodes. When you click on next, you will see a summary and the cluster creation will start after you confirm. You will then be forwarded to the cluster creation page where you can view the cluster creation process:

![Cluster details in creation state](image_cluster-details_01.png)

After all of the master components are ready, your cluster will create the configured number of worker nodes in your SysEleven Stack tenant. Fully created nodes will be marked with a green dot, pending ones with a yellow circle. You may [download the kubeconfig](../06.download-the-kubeconfig/default.en.md) now to be able to use `kubectl` with your cluster or just use the provided [Web Terminal](../../02.Documentation/10.metakube-webterminal/default.en.md). After all nodes are created you can use `kubectl` to view and check the status of the created nodes:

```bash
$ kubectl get nodes
NAME                          STATUS    ROLES     AGE       VERSION
kubermatic-w9tk8cmw62-22wgv   Ready     <none>    1m        v1.9.6
kubermatic-w9tk8cmw62-58pd6   Ready     <none>    1m        v1.9.6
kubermatic-w9tk8cmw62-hm5vl   Ready     <none>    1m        v1.9.6
```
