pages/03.addons/01.metakube-ingress/default.en.md, before:

---
title: 'Ingress Controller'
published: true
date: '18-07-2019 13:00'
taxonomy:
    tag:
        - metakube
        - ingress
        - nginx
        - addon
---

With the NGINX Kubernetes Ingress controller, you get basic load balancing and SSL/TLS termination for all Kubernetes Ingress resources.

You can find more information on ingresses and the nginx ingress controller and all of it's configuration options at:

* the [Kubernetes Ingress Documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/)
* the [Nginx Ingress Controller Documentation](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/user-guide/nginx-configuration/)
* the tutorial [Deploy an Application](../../04.tutorials/16.deploy-an-application/default.en.md)

## Installation

For information on how to install and uninstall an Add-On see [MetaKube Add-Ons](../default.en.md).

## Customization

The following customization options are possible:

| Option | Description | Default value |
| ------ | ----------- | ------------- |
| CPU Requests | How many milli CPUs should be reserved | 100m |
| Memory Requests | How much memory should be reserved | 128Mi |
| CPU Limits | What is the maximum of used milli CPUs | 200m |
| Memory Limits | What is the maximum of used memory | 512Mi |
| Replicas | How many replicas should be running | 2 |
| Use Auto Scaling | Should a HorizontalPodAutoscaler be created | false |
| Min Replicas | The minimum amount of replicas in the AutoScaler | 2 |
| Max Replicas | The maximum amount of replicas in the AutoScaler | 4 |
| Default TLS certificate | Path to a secret in the form `namespace/secret-name` that contains a tls certificate that should be used if an Ingress does not define one | |

## Customizing the NGINX Ingress Controller configuration

There are two ways to configure the NGINX Ingress Controller configuration:

## Annotations

You can configure values for a specific Ingress by adding annotations to the Ingress object. See [Annotations](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/user-guide/nginx-configuration/annotations/) for more details.

## ConfigMap

You can change the default values for all Ingress objects by adding a ConfigMap called `syseleven-ingress-nginx-ingress-controller` in the `syseleven-ingress` namespace. See [ConfigMap](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/user-guide/nginx-configuration/configmap/) for more details.

Note that after initially creating the ConfigMap you have to restart all ingress controller pods once:

```bash
kubectl rollout restart deployment syseleven-ingress-nginx-ingress-controller -n syseleven-ingress
```

Commit message:

Loadbalancer (#124)
* added changes for octavia

* added note to nginx addon

* added  29.how-to-use-the-proxy-protocol

* removed  29.how-to-use-the-proxy-protocol

* added changes for octavia

* added note to nginx addon

* added  29.how-to-use-the-proxy-protocol

* removed  29.how-to-use-the-proxy-protocol

* added  29.how-to-use-the-proxy-protocol

* added 29.how-to-use-the-proxy-protocol

* added 29.how-to-use-the-proxy-protocol

* Update pages/03.addons/01.metakube-ingress/default.en.md

Make important statement bold

Co-authored-by: Phillip <32705812+phiphi282@users.noreply.github.com>

pages/03.addons/01.metakube-ingress/default.en.md, after:

---
title: 'Ingress Controller'
published: true
date: '18-07-2019 13:00'
taxonomy:
    tag:
        - metakube
        - ingress
        - nginx
        - addon
---

With the NGINX Kubernetes Ingress controller, you get basic load balancing and SSL/TLS termination for all Kubernetes Ingress resources. **Important**: this Add-On is only compatible with Kubernetes versions <=1.18.0.

You can find more information on ingresses and the nginx ingress controller and all of it's configuration options at:

* the [Kubernetes Ingress Documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/)
* the [Nginx Ingress Controller Documentation](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/user-guide/nginx-configuration/)
* the tutorial [Deploy an Application](../../04.tutorials/16.deploy-an-application/default.en.md)

## Installation

For information on how to install and uninstall an Add-On see [MetaKube Add-Ons](../default.en.md).

## Customization

The following customization options are possible:

| Option | Description | Default value |
| ------ | ----------- | ------------- |
| CPU Requests | How many milli CPUs should be reserved | 100m |
| Memory Requests | How much memory should be reserved | 128Mi |
| CPU Limits | What is the maximum of used milli CPUs | 200m |
| Memory Limits | What is the maximum of used memory | 512Mi |
| Replicas | How many replicas should be running | 2 |
| Use Auto Scaling | Should a HorizontalPodAutoscaler be created | false |
| Min Replicas | The minimum amount of replicas in the AutoScaler | 2 |
| Max Replicas | The maximum amount of replicas in the AutoScaler | 4 |
| Default TLS certificate | Path to a secret in the form `namespace/secret-name` that contains a tls certificate that should be used if an Ingress does not define one | |

## Customizing the NGINX Ingress Controller configuration

There are two ways to configure the NGINX Ingress Controller configuration:

## Annotations

You can configure values for a specific Ingress by adding annotations to the Ingress object. See [Annotations](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/user-guide/nginx-configuration/annotations/) for more details.

## ConfigMap

You can change the default values for all Ingress objects by adding a ConfigMap called `syseleven-ingress-nginx-ingress-controller` in the `syseleven-ingress` namespace. See [ConfigMap](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/user-guide/nginx-configuration/configmap/) for more details.

Note that after initially creating the ConfigMap you have to restart all ingress controller pods once:

```bash
kubectl rollout restart deployment syseleven-ingress-nginx-ingress-controller -n syseleven-ingress
```
